The French Riviera
 (known in French as the Côte d'Azur French pronunciation: ?[kot da'zy?]; Occitan: Còsta d'Azur pronounced [
literal translation "Coast of Azure") is the Mediterranean coastline of the southeast corner of France. There is no official boundary, but it is usually 
considered to extend from Cassis or Toulon or Saint-Tropez on the west to the France-Italy border in the east, where the Italian Riviera joins.
 The coast is entirely within the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur (PACA) region of France. The principality of Monaco is a semi-enclave within the region, 
surrounded on three sides by France and fronting the Mediterranean.

This coastline was one of the first modern resort areas. It began as a winter health resort for the British upper class at the end of the 18th century. 
With the arrival of the railway in the mid-19th century, it became the playground and vacation spot of British, Russian, and other aristocrats, such as 

Queen Victoria and King Edward VII, when he was Prince of Wales. In the summer, it also played home to many members of the Rothschild family. 
In the first half of the 20th century, it was frequented by artists and writers, including Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Edith Wharton, Somerset Maugham, 
and Aldous Huxley, as well as wealthy Americans and Europeans. After World War II, it became a popular tourist destination and convention site. 
Many celebrities, 
such as Elton John and Brigitte Bardot, have homes in the region. Officially, the French Riviera is home to 163 nationalities with 83,962 foreign residents,[3]
 although estimates of the number of non-French nationals living in the area are often much higher.[4]

Its largest city is Nice, which has a population of 347,060 (2006).[5] The city is the center of a communauté urbaine – Nice-Côte d'Azur – bringing together 24
 communes and more than 500,000 inhabitants and 933,080 in the urban area.

Nice is home to Nice Côte d'Azur Airport, France's third-busiest airport (after Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport and Paris-Orly), which is on an area of partially
 reclaimed coastal land at the western end of the Promenade des Anglais. A second airport at Mandelieu was once the region's commercial airport,[6] but is
 now mainly used by private and business aircraft.[7] The A8 autoroute runs through the region, as does the old main road generally known as the Route 
nationale 7 (officially now the DN7 in the Var and the D6007 in the Alpes-Maritimes).[8] Trains serve the coastal region and inland to Grasse, with the 
TGV Sud Est service reaching Nice-Ville station in five and a half hours from Paris.

