New York, United States of America, North America

Founded: 1613; Incorporated: 1898
Location: Southeastern New York on the Atlantic coast, United States, North America
Time Zone: 7 am Eastern Standard Time (EST) = noon Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
Ethnic Composition: White, 63.9%; Black, 28.7%; Asian/Pacific Islander, 7%
Elevation: 15–244 m (50–800 ft) above sea level
Latitude and Longitude: 40°45'N, 73°59'W
Coastline: 1,942 km (750 mi)
Climate: Continental climate moderated by the Atlantic Ocean, with hot summers, cold winters, mild springs, and crisp autumns
Annual Mean Temperature: 12.2°C (54.0°F); January 0.1°C (32.2°F); July 24.8°C (76.6°F)
Seasonal Average Snowfall : 737 mm (29 in)
Average Annual Precipitation (total of rainfall and melted snow): 1016 mm (40 in)
Government: Mayor-council
Weights and Measures: Standard U.S.
Monetary Units: Standard U.S.
Telephone Area Codes: 212, 718
Postal Codes: 10001–99; 10101–99; 10201–82

1. Introduction
Located at the mouth of the Hudson River in southeastern New York state, New York is one of the world's great cities.
 It has the largest population of any city in the United States, and it is unrivaled in the diversity of its neighborhoods and their often-colorful residents.
 New York runs the gamut from great concentrations of wealth, epitomized by luxury apartment buildings and hotels and mammoth corporate headquarters,
 to the grinding urban poverty of its ethnic and racial ghettos. A major financial and economic center, it is also a cultural mecca that has attracted generations of
 artists and intellectuals and draws millions of tourists every year. In its 400-year history the city has grown and changed rapidly, repeatedly renewing itself 
through successive waves of immigration and urban development. As a new century approaches, it remains, perhaps more than anything else, a city on the move.

2. Getting There
Located at the southeastern-most point in the state of New York, New York City is situated on the Atlantic coastal plain, at the mouth of the Hudson River.

Highways
New York City is known for its traffic congestion, and many New Yorkers walk or use public transportation within the city itself. The major north-south
 interstate routes leading to New York are I-95 and I-87 (which approaches New York from the north only). In New Jersey, I-95 becomes the New Jersey Turnpike.
 East of the Hudson River, it becomes the Cross Bronx Expressway before heading north up the coast of New England. I-95 leads to the Holland and Lincoln
 tunnels and the George Washington Bridge. I-87 (the New York Thruway) becomes the Major Deegan Expressway as it nears the city from the north. 
I-80 (the Bergen-Passaic Expressway) approaches New York heading eastward from Pennsylvania.

Bus and Railroad Service
Amtrak offers daily service to New York's Penn Station from Chicago (on the Lake Shore Limited ), Miami (the Silver Star ), New Orleans (the Crescent ), 
Toronto (the Maple Leaf ), and Montreal (the Adirondack ). Amtrak also operates a high-speed rail shuttle, the Metroliner , between New York and Washington, 
D.C. Other rail lines that operate out of Penn Station are the Long Island Railroad and New Jersey Transit. Metro-North operates service from New Haven, 
Connecticut, and Poughkeepsie, New York, to Manhattan's Grand Central Railroad Terminal.

Airports
Almost every major domestic carrier operates flights to and from New York, as do most international airlines as well. The city is served by three major airports: 
John F. Kennedy International Airport (which handles over 200 international flights per day) and LaGuardia Airport, both in Queens, 
and Newark International Airport in New Jersey.

New York Population Profile
City Proper
Population: 7,333,000
Area: 800 sq km (308.9 sq mi)
Ethnic composition: 63.9% white; 28.7% black; 7% Asian/Pacific Islander
Nicknames: The Big Apple; The Empire City

Metropolitan Area
Population: 16,626,000
Description: New York City and surrounding communities
World population rank 1: 5
Percentage of national population 2: 6.0%
Average yearly growth rate: 0.4%
Ethnic composition: 91.2% white; 4.4% black; 3.4% Asian/Pacific Islander

———
The New York metropolitan area's rank among the world's urban areas.
The percent of the United States' total population living in the New York metropolitan area.
Shipping
New York is home to two Foreign Trade Zones—one at Kennedy International Airport and one at the Brooklyn Navy Yard—which encourage
 trade by providing exemptions from certain import duties. Although New York has one of the world's largest and safest harbors, shipping traffic 
through its port (and that of New Jersey) has been cut by more than half in the past 30 years, as shippers have begun using modern railroad flat 
cars that cross over land bridges. However, the World Trade Center, home to many of the world's largest trading companies, is still owned by the 
Port Authority of New York.

3. Getting Around
New York City consists of five divisions called boroughs. Manhattan and Staten Island occupy separate islands. Brooklyn and Queens,
 across the East River, are located at the western end of Long Island, and the Bronx occupies part of the mainland to the north, across the Harlem River.