Washington, D.C.
NATIONAL CAPITAL, UNITED STATES

Washington, D.C., D.C. in full District of Columbia, city and capital of the United States of America. 
It is coextensive with the District of Columbia (the city is often referred to as simply D.C.) and is located 
on the northern shore of the Potomac River at the river’s navigation head—that is, the transshipment point 
between waterway and land transport. The state of Maryland borders the District of Columbia to the north,
 east, and west, and the state of Virginia borders the District on the southern shore of the Potomac River.
In 1790 the U.S. Congress established a 100-square-mile (260-square-km) territory to serve as the permanent
 seat of the federal government. (The territory was later named the District of Columbia, within which the city 
of Washington was built.) The location for the new territory was centralized among the Eastern Seaboard states 
and was about 90 miles (145 km) inland from the Atlantic Ocean on land ceded by Maryland and Virginia.
 In the mid-19th century the land south of the Potomac River that had been ceded by Virginia was returned to the state, reducing the District to its present-day size.

After the American Civil War (1861–65), the city of Washington expanded beyond its originally planned boundaries and became legally indistinguishable from the District of Columbia. Washington, D.C., remains a territory, not a state, and since 1974 it has been governed by a locally elected mayor and city council over which Congress retains the power of veto. The Washington metropolitan area covers nearly 4,000 square miles (10,360 square km) and encompasses 10 counties, 5 in Maryland (Montgomery, Prince George’s, Frederick, Charles, and Calvert) and 5 in Virginia 
(Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Stafford, and Prince William). Area District, 68 square miles (176 square km).
 Pop. (2000) 572,059; Washington-Arlington-Alexandria Metro Division, 3,727,565; Washington-Arlington-
Alexandria Metro Area, 4,796,183; (2010) 601,723; Washington-Arlington-Alexandria Metro Division, 4,377,088; Washington-Arlington-Alexandria 
Metro Area, 5,582,170


Character Of The City
Washington is an extraordinary city, one with multiple personalities: a working federal city, 
an international metropolis, a picturesque tourist destination, an unmatched treasury of the country’s
 history and artifacts, and a cosmopolitan centre that retains a neighbourly small-town ambience. 
The role Washington plays as the capital of the United States often overshadows its lively local history 
and its complex political, economic, and social issues. About half the land in Washington is owned by the 
U.S. government, which pays no taxes on it. Several hundred thousand people in the D.C. metropolitan area 
work for the federal government.



Monuments and memorials

Much of the attractiveness of Washington can be attributed to the hundreds of outdoor sculptures and 
monuments that adorn the parks, gardens, buildings, avenues, and cemeteries of the city. 
L’Enfant suggested the use of outdoor sculpture as a way to honour the new country’s heroes. 
The first outdoor sculpture situated in Washington was the Tripoli Memorial, commemorating the heroes 
of the Tripolitan War (1801–05). It stood first in the Navy Yard in Southeast Washington and was later moved
 to the Capitol grounds before being relocated to the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
In the 1840s Congress commissioned the first statue of George Washington, a white marble Romanesque
 rendering of the first president. It was exhibited outside on the eastern front plaza of the Capitol for years
 before being placed in storage. In the 1960s the statue was given a permanent home in the National Museum of 
American History. An equestrian statue of Washington was also part of L’Enfant’s design for the city; 
it was to have been located at a crossing point west of the Capitol and south of the White House.
 In 1885, nearly 100 years after the plan was first promulgated, the Washington Monument, 
a 555-foot (169-metre) unadorned obelisk, much grander than the modest statue L’Enfant envisioned, 
was dedicated on the Mall, near the original site. Meanwhile, in 1860 an equestrian statue of George 
Washington had been placed in Washington Circle, northwest of the White House.

The Washington Monument and other memorials honouring U.S. presidents are some of the most-visited landmarks in Washington.
 The Lincoln Memorial lies west of the Washington Monument, on land reclaimed from the Potomac River at the far western end of the Mall’s Reflecting Pool. 
Designed in the Greek Revival style and modeled after the Parthenon in Athens, the monument often has been the site of civil rights gatherings, demonstrations,
 and speeches—perhaps most notably the “I Have a Dream” speech given by Martin Luther King, Jr., in 1963. The Jefferson Memorial is located south of the 
Mall on the southern rim of the Tidal Basin in East Potomac Park. Inside the white marble temple, which was inspired by the Pantheon in Rome, are inscribed
 quotes from Jefferson’s writings, including the Declaration of Independence and the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Another striking memorial is the 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, located on the southwestern edge of the Tidal Basin within a 7.5-acre (3-hectare) park. The memorial is divided into four
 outdoor chambers, one for each of Roosevelt’s presidential terms